# CircularQueues
CSPB2270 Data Structures Project
Author: Clayton Braden
CU identiKey: clbr9639

This program analyzes the data prices for specific stocks over the course of a year starting with December 10th using a Circular Queue data strucuture. A circular Queue has a front and rear of queue (as specified by user) which will automatically update the queue to include only the number of dates specified. Specifically, the queue will be created and intake the number of values specified by the user. When a new entry comes in, the entry is added at the end of the queue and becomes the rear if the queue is not full. If the queue is full, the oldest value (front value) is replaced with the new value. The entry in front becomes the new front and rear (the oldest value). A circular queue provides effeciency as the capacity does not continue to increase when the queue becomes full unlike a linear queue. Rather, the oldest values are removed and replaced with the newest values so only the most recent data is analyzed.

The main goal of this program is to devolop a tool that can recommend to buy a stock, hold a stock, or sell a stock based on the patterns users approach of trading. For example, if a user wants to know a long term recommendation, they can input a higher value (365 days) to analyze the patterns or trend of the stock for the whole year. If a user has a short term investing approach, they can input a lower value (10 days) to analyze the patterns or trends of the stock for a shorter time frame.

The program is divided into two main classes which are the Circular Queue and Stock Analyzer classes. Each with their respective .h and .cpp files. The circular queue class contains the functions necessary for storing the data such as the enqueue function which adds the stockEntry nodes to a queue which is based on a vector class in this case. The enqueue function updates the size if the queue is not full (size does not equal capacity). In addition, the rear is updated but the front is kept the same. If the queue is full, the size is not updated but both the rear and front are updated. This keeps track of the oldest and newest entries. The dequeue is used to remove a stockEntry. This function removes the front entry value, updates the front index, and reduces the size. The getSize function is used to get the size which is used for constructing the queue. The peek function provides the value of the front entry (oldest value) in the queue. The getAllData() function is a function that gets the data and creates the queue which can be used in other functions/classes.

The stockAnalyzer contains the stockEntry structure which holds a stocks closing price and daily volume. A new entry is created for each day. The stockAnalyzer has a function that reads all of the stock entry prices found in the CSV files in the folder stock prices. After reading, the stock analyzes the prices by creating a queue and analyzing the average stock price and volumes of the queue. The reccomdnation function uses these values to provide a Buy, Sell, or Hold recommendation.

For this program, only the price was implemented and used in the recc. The program will analyze only the entries in the queue and provide a recommendation of buy, sell, and hold. The program recommendations are based on the average price of the queue, latest price (stock price on December 10th), and the previous price (stock price on December 9th). The program will recommend buy if the current price is greater than 2.0% of the average price of the queue prices AND the latest price (price on December 10th) is greater than the price on December 9th. The program will recommend sell if recommend buy if the current price is less than 2.0% of the average price of the queue prices and the latest price (price on December 10th) is less than the price on December 9th. The program will recommend "Hold" if neither criteria is met.

The program can be run using the main.cpp. The user will be prompted to select the number of days they wish to analyze. Since the data held in the stock price.csv only contains a year's worth of data, the maximum value that should be entered is 365. The program also requires more than 2 entries to analyze so the user must choose a value greater than 2 and less than 366. The program will output the average price over the period, average volume, the latest price (price on December 10th), the price change between the latest price and average price, and the recommendation. In addition, the circular queue contents will be output to ensure the correct queue is being printed.

The main stock that can be used to test is the ASTS stock. ASTS is a stock that has had a great year, but has declined in the past couple of weeks. If inputting an analysis value for 200 days, the recommendation will be too Hold the stock (since difference between latest price and average price is > 2.0% but the latest price is less than the stock price the day before). If inputting a value of 3 days, the recommendatio will provide a sell recommendation (since difference between latest price and average price is < -2.0% and the latest price is less than the stock price the day before). Alternatively, if we test Tesla over 200 days, the stock will provide a buy recommendation. However, the stock will provide a sell reccomendation if the 